I want this book to be open for anyone…whether or not you have personally struggled with these issues, or if you just want to be more relatable to those who have.

So the stories, my personal stories, are not to be shared in detail, but are examples of things I’ve experienced…and should be added at the right places but with less detail and more synopsis of what I’ve experienced and what others might have experienced.
Some of the below may not be relevant and you can skip.  Others may just be musing that you might figure out how to use.

Personal story
We had been married about 12 years.
We recently moved from our “roots” in Oklahoma to Florida.
It didn’t take us long to become deeply involved in ministry at our church.
We started a class called Family Haven in church of about 500 people.  We met on Sunday mornings and spontaneously throughout the week.  Most of us had young kids in early elementary grades.  I taught our Sunday School class.
But something wasn’t right.  The pieces of my life didn’t seem to fit together.
My relationships were tense.  I found it difficult to “get along” with people at work when there was confrontation or what I felt like was an attack my ideas and leadership.
My boss even told me, “This isn’t working.  You’re destroying the team.”
My marriage suffered.  
I worked hard to prepare challenging lessons.  But on the inside, I wondered myself if I could make this work.
Everything came crashing down when my secret sin was revealed.
I couldn’t hold it together anymore.  Unfortunately, we were attending a church who really didn’t know how to handle the situation.  All they knew to do was threaten me with disfellowship and tell my wife she could divorce me.  That sounded a lot like “friendly fire” to me.  So I told them that wouldn’t be necessary.  And I simply walked away.
Many of you can’t relate.  Perhaps most of you.  But what we know is this, likely you know someone who has walked a similar path, or even a different path, but the results were the same.  Wounded to the point of wanting out.  A broken world.  The pieces seemingly simply can’t be put back together.


Mikes Group
This is my swamp
Amazing grace
 
 
 
What is this thing called Connection, and why is it so important to life?
 
As far as I can tell, connection IS life.  Without it, we die - if not physically, at least within.
  
It is a theme tightly woven into Scripture.  It is understood by sociologist to be of fundamental importance to well-being.  And yet, when you ask people about connection...we hear of isolation and loneliness - disconnection.  When asked about belonging, our deep seated emotional experiences are filled with exclusion.
 
How is it that connection is of primary importance, and yet seems so elusive to so many people...to me?
 
So I ask myself...
 
Do I feel connected?
Do I want to feel connected?
Do I even think or believe that connection is a worthwhile achievement?
 
Or perhaps those are the wrong questions...rather I might ask...
 
When do I feel the happiest?
When do I feel the unhappiest?
When do I feel the joy of life?
When do I feel the inner discord of life?
When do I feel the most loved?
When do I feel the most unloved?
When do I feel the most unlovable?
When do I feel the circles of my life come together in congruence, rather than a life of segregated pieces - when is my life more like a completed puzzle, rather than a box full of individual pieces?
 
Is there a common thread or correlation that links connection to love, joy and peace and a purpose that gets me up in the morning to anticipate the day ahead, rather than to dread the day ahead?
 
If we look at the research, what we find is some rather groundbreaking discoveries that do, indeed, link these seemingly disjointed topics together.
 
What we find is a glaring, indisputable correlation between connection and life meaning and purpose, resulting in a tremendous satisfaction with living life, even in the midst of the most dire of circumstances.  The corollary is a life of inner struggle, discord...and dare I say, fear and shame.
 
If that’s true...why would I ignore this research?  Why wouldn’t I at least pursue the possibilities of achieving what others value so highly...and not just value...but what they would be willing to literally die for - rather than lose?
 
But there’s another striking finding in the research.  It appears none of this has anything to do with unwinding my past.  And while there are things that could be, perhaps should be, addressed that are causing some inner conflict from my past...I believe the best way to resolve those conflicts to be more about living in the present...to live for today, and to set my sights on tomorrow (aka the future).  But how?
 
One researcher stands out to me as having codified the formula and documented it in a way that is consumable to me.  Her name is Brene Brown...and her documentation is well summarized in her book Daring Greatly: How the Courage to Be Vulnerable Transforms the Way We Live, Love, Parent, and Lead.  Her research led her into what she called a breakdown...or what her therapist called a spiritual awakening.
 
If there is anyone who has experienced a personal breakdown...it is me.  And if there is anyone who needs a spiritual awakening...it is me.
 
Where does this road begin?  And where will it lead?
 
Having glanced through the research...and the anecdotal stories told by Dr. Brown.  And drive through the observations, findings, conclusions and recommendations as laid out by such researchers.
 
But I have stories of my own.  I have stories I want to suppress.  I have stories I want to forget.  And I believe that if I don’t take a good look at my stories, and if I rely on the stories of others, I won’t come to terms with my reality.  If I merely rest on the stories of others who have “been there”...then it won’t create inside of me the motivation I need to fully recognize the swamp land in which I find myself.  Rather, I would be looking into the eyes of another...and attempting to leverage their own reality to try to change mine.  And to me, that’s like watching from outside the arena...instead of stepping into the arena and fighting the fight with my own personal involvement.
 
Theodore Roosevelt said it this way:
 
It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat. 
 
 
Strolling across the beach one day
I saw an image of me
 
Everybody Loves Raymond... explores vulnerabilities
 
Imperfection.. The driftwood on the beach
 
Numbing... Rose
 
This is my swamp...
 
Moments
 
One Step
 
Eyes Wide Open
 
The Real Who I Am...As I See Me
 
The Call of the Swamp
 
I’m out of the swamp.
Living free.
Happy to be me.
 
And I hear it.
I don’t want to, but I hear it.
The call.
To return.
To return to the swamp...and be engulfed in the muck and mire.
To be compelled to my desire.
 
But...I say to myself, “I’m free”
Why do I want to go back to the prison that I know isn’t me?
Why do I want to return to something I know I don’t want to be?
 
Is it a disease?
Can I not help to appease?
 
Is it something over which I have not control?
Something that will make me whole?
 
A call that I cannot ignore?
A call that does implore?
 
v
 
 
As a young man growing up
I knew what was right and wrong
 
The choices for me were easy
I wanted to do what was right
 
As I walked the walk of faith
Something kept pulling me down
 
And took my eyes off the one
Who could take my burdon for me
 
Rather than trust in the loving son
I chose to be weighed down
 
By the shakles of a different life
A choice that would imprison me
 
Rather than give him my burdon
I chose to take it on myself
 
I refused, through my pride to give it to him
And I thought I could carry it.
 
 
 
Freedom
Freedom
It’s what we gotta have
 
Freedom
Freedom
 
 
 
Freedom is not free
Freedom is not free
The price was calvery
Paid for you and me
 
 
Freedom Is Not Free
 
I am free from my swamp…
...where the air smells fresh...
...where the water is clean…
...where the food is delicious…
...where I can laugh again…
...where I can live again…
...where I can sleep again...
...where I can feel again…
 
I am free…
...to allow myself to embrace joy…in the midst of grief...
...to allow myself to embrace peace…in the midst of pain...
...to allow myself to embrace today...for all it is…
...to allow myself to anticipate tomorrow...for all it can be…
 
I am free from my past…
...that feeds my shame…
...that keeps me bound in chains...unable to move…
...that keeps me in my cave...where darkness surrounds me…
...that keeps me in my cocoon...that protects me...from myself...
...that keeps me on my island...far, far away...from everyone…
 
And yet…
 
And yet…
 
I hear the voices.
...oh, why do I hear the voices?
 
What’s wrong with me, that I hear the voices?
 
You are not a good husband…
You could not give her the intimacy she desired…
 
Youre not a good father…
You could not save her from the vilest of offenses…
 
Youre not a good follower of Christ…
You have deserted your faith…
 
No Good Deed
 
 
Dancing with the Angels
 
What must it be like to be in Heaven?
 
Are you dancing with the angels every day?
Are your days filled with joy and glory?
Are you praising the God you lived for?
 
Oh, how must it be, to be in Heaven?
With no worries, with no fear, with no turmoil.
With no concern about tomorrow.
 
But here on Earth, we miss you.
You were our strength…
You were our support…
 
And now that you’re gone...life is different.
 
Oh, how must it be, to be in Heaven?
With no worries, with no fear, with no turmoil.
With no concern about tomorrow.
 
But here on Earth, we miss you.
You were a shining light…
You lived your life to bring joy to others.
 
Oh, how must it be, to be in Heaven?
Are your days filled with joy, with praise for the one you love.
With no concern about tomorrow.
 
But here on Earth, we miss you.
Your daily walk with God was an inspiration.
You spread your joy, the joy of Jesus, for everyone to see.
 
And now that you’re gone...life is different.
 
Oh, how must it be, to be in Heaven?
To sing in the angel’s choir.
To praise the God of all creation.
 
But here on Earth, we miss you.
And we look forward to the day we reunite.
To sing with you in the angel’s choir…
 
To praise the God of all creation.
 ————————————————————————————-
 
 
**Revelation 21:4 (NIV)**  
"He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away."
 
**In Heaven's Embrace**
What must it be like in Heaven's embrace?  
Dancing with angels in a radiant space?  
Filled with pure joy, where sorrows decay,  
As you sing out your praise in eternal day.
Oh, how must it be, to dwell up above,  
Where worries are fleeting, wrapped in His love?  
No fears to unravel, no turmoil to borrow,  
Just peace, endless hope, no concern for tomorrow.
Yet here on Earth, we feel the divide,  
You were our strength, our steadfast guide.  
In the shadows of loss, life feels stark,  
For now, in our hearts, there's an aching mark.
Oh, how must it be, in that heavenly sphere?  
With melodies soaring, joy crystal clear.  
To bask in the presence of the One you adored,  
And live in the light of His love, evermore.
We miss you dearly, your spirit so bright,  
A beacon of joy, a pure, shining light.  
You gave of yourself, your heart open wide,  
With the joy of our Savior, you walked side by side.
To sing with the angels, to worship supreme,  
In a place filled with love, where all souls redeem.  
But here on Earth, your absence we feel,  
Your daily walk with God, his eternal seal.
Oh, how must it be, in that glorious choir,  
To lift up your voice, to rise even higher?  
With the God of creation, in perfect accord,  
Uniting our hearts, in the love of the Lord.
But here on Earth, our hearts ache with longing,  
For the day we reunite, our spirits belonging.  
To sing side by side in that heavenly choir,  
Praising the God of all, our hearts set afire.
 
 ————————————————————————————
 
I spent the last month of your life with you,  
As I witnessed your strength slowly fade from view.  
Though your body grew weary, your heart stayed alive,  
Your spirit soared high, in His love, you would thrive.
 
We wanted you to let go and embrace your Savior,  
To find peace and joy in His loving favor.  
But you held on tightly, to life as you knew,  
With a heart full of care, still looking out for us too.
 
We watched you gaze out the window to Heaven,  
We sensed in your heart that you longed for the leaven.  
Yet you couldn't depart from the love you held tight,  
As your body grew weary, you clung to the light.  
 
And then came the day of your sweet transformation,  
A sigh and a groan marked your farewell's narration.  
We hurried to witness your last gentle breath,  
As you slipped from our grasp, embraced by His rest.  
 
And we praised the God of your perfect creation,  
Thanking Him warmly for your joyful salvation.  
 
You always knew your home was in the skies,  
Eager for the day when your spirit would soar.  
Grasping your family, with light in your eyes,  
Hesitant to leave them, yet longing for more.  
 
 —————————
 
I spent the last month of your life with you.
I watched you as your physical life washed away.
While you faded mentally and physically.
But your spirit continued to thrive and move toward His.
 
You always knew your home was in Heaven.
You dreamed of the day you would transform.
But you held so tightly to your family,
Refusing to let go of those you loved.
 
We wanted you to let go and be with your Savior.
We wanted to let you go and be with Him.
And you refused hanging on to life as you knew it.
Because you were still looking out for the best of us.
 
You always knew your home was in Heaven.
You dreamed of the day you would transform.
But you held so tightly to your family,
Refusing to let go of those you loved.
 
We watched you stare out the window into Heaven.
We knew you wanted to let go and leave.
But you couldn't leave the love of your life.
Even though you body was failing day by day.
 
You always knew your home was in Heaven.
You dreamed of the day you would transform.
But you held so tightly to your family,
Refusing to let go of those you loved.
 
And then the day came of your transformation.
You let out the groans that said it was time.
We rushed to watch your last breath tell us.
That you were gone from us... reaching to your glory.
 
You always knew your home was in Heaven.
You dreamed of the day you would transform.
And on that day you finally let go.
Meeting the God of all glory.
 
And we praised the God of your creation.
Thanking Him for bringing you home.
 
---------------
 
The Story of Love
 
 
 
Peter
 
I see myself in the followers of Christ
My weaknesses, like theirs, so alive
And yet, there is something in their witness
That causes me to thrive
 
The stories...again and again testify
That even in the presence of the One...they failed
Just like me...I get up and try again
My attempts at righteousness...He unveiled
 
Oh when, oh when will I learn
Like they did, it’s not about my strength
 
 
 
Kitchen
Rock and Rabbi
Family game night
Simple Supper ... Wynelle Deese
Michelle
Conversation tone...answering questions...reading texts
Melissa past...
- the models
- Awfulizing
- free will model
- three r
 
 
Free
 
Do you want to be right or well.
Hand unacceptable
Fear...returning…
Avoidance, running, escape  me feeding, her reacting
Not suicidal, processing mom
Better place...what did work last week?
 
- Went out with Wayne...drinks at the VIP…
- Two people in my life that have influenced me the most...Wayne and Mark...and we can’t have relationship with either one…  Why?
 
The best weekend trip of my life…
Accomplished in one weekend what I haven’t in a year…
Playoffs?
 
So much coming at me...feel like I am taking a drink out of a fire hydrant.  Can’t seem to take it all in.  Why I am here…
 
Preview:
My reactions...and lack of triggers.  (one trigger...minor...as I was walking through the lobby one night...music playing...it brought back good memories of me...and me & anita...listening to music and enjoying a mudslide...or wine...I knew I could sit down and relax...and enjoy a drink, but NOW is not the right time...so I simply went and got some decaf coffee...and enjoyed it just as much).  That wasn’t a trigger that I felt was in the same category as “I need to get drunk.”
 
I know you never said, “It’s ok that Paul drinks.”  What you said was, when we find the triggers...the need will go away.  And frankly, it is, I am guessing, difficult to know if you’re seeing the real Paul or the substance Paul.  And the only way you’re going to find out who I really am...is to see the real me...consistently...over time.  Obviously we have three kids...I don’t remember how that went...except that for at least one of them...we did the ovulation method...and it was sort of a “going through the motions” kind of sex...
 
The book, Stop Walking on Egg Shells… BPD...I firmly believe my bizar behaviors to be substance induced...rather than “who I really am”...I’m concerning that so much of this book highlights where we have been...and went back in my mind through the history of how I became an addict.  We should talk about this…  (This isn’t about me diagnosing...it is about me pointing to text and saying, “That’s me!”)
 
Birth-control pill...started before we got married… We still made out...and were physical...honeymoon was great.  So why all of a sudden did it become the birth-control pill?
 
But first, my journal...
 
Journal of Oklahoma Trip
 
Thursday - Appointment with Dr. Petit...
 
I had been drinking that day.  The appointment was at 4PM.  It didn't end well.  However, during the session, Dr. Petit offered this challenge... try to stay sober for a week...and document the triggers that cause you to want to drink.
 
Also during that session, Anita and I established that I shouldn't be home when Mike and Erica visited.
 
I didn't take the challenge immediately...My last drink was Saturday...around noon.  But I still hadn't taken the challenge.
 
I booked a trip to Oklahoma for Thursday through Sunday.  And I took the challenge.
 
The week was tense...stressed.  But Anita and I basically stayed away from each other...  She slept in the other room through Wed night.  I flew out Thursday afternoon.
 
From Sunday through Thursday, there were no triggers.  I had no desire to drink, but focused on taking care of myself.  That is, I had determined I could not depend on anyone, especially my family, to support me in this endeavor.  My feeling was, whether true or not, they wouldn't support me as long as I was not willing to attend some kind of AA therapy.  Anita wanted me to see Dr. Petit before I left...I chose not to.
 
On the plane, being in first class, there was, of course, ample opportunity to drink.  In fact, they are so "helpful" in providing alcohol, they walk the isle with already poured shots.  I drank tomato juice.  I had no desire to drink, in fact, my desire was just the opposite.  I was looking forward to some time away to reflect and enjoy life.  My best friend and CPA was in the middle of tax season...so it would be difficult for him to get away (working until past midnight every night...pushing through it)...but we arranged to meet for lunch Saturday.
 
I also made arrangements to take my mom to dinner Friday night...and then to cook with her, my brother and sister-in-law and some of their kids Saturday night.
 
I hadn't made arrangements where I would worship Sunday...but I was looking for some soulfull worship time...  Mark suggested Our Lord's Community Church...
 
I landed around 4...and went to Mark's office for a surprise visit.  (Apparently I am not the only one who tells the receptionist that his parol officer was here for a surprise visit).  Guess I will have to change that up...drug dealer?
 
I intended to stay 5 minutes.  It turned into an hour and a half.  It was nothing less than a "God" visit.
 
He and I are so open with one another, that even if we haven't talked in months...within a minute, we are deep in conversation.  Of course I know his situation with his wife...but he shared something with me he says he has only told his counselor.  In a locked up brief case he has a book...Stop Walking on Egg Shells...and he explained the entire story of how he got to that point...  We share lots of history...just about everything, I suppose.  I had already shared with him my struggles with my addictions, my drug habbit, and my drug dealer getting shot and killed shortly after we started treatment a year ago.
 
What I know is...that visit was instrumental in bringing me to a watershed moment.  But I wouldn't fully realize it until last night or today (Saturday).  Here's how that went.
 
I left Marks office barely in time to check into the hotel...and go to the game (Thunder vs Spurs).  My spirits were high.  Plus, it was an exciting game that took my mind off all the "stuff".  When the game was over, I headed back to my hotel - exhausted...so I went to sleep in order to wake up refreshed for work.
 
Friday morning, I went to the concierge lounge where I enjoyed a good breakfast.  I worked all morning - several calls, lots to do.  Then went to Kevin Durant's restaurant for lunch.  Wow...that was the best meat loaf ever!  The mashed potatoes were sooo creamy and seasoned.  The green beans with bacon were exceptional with a hint of heat.  In fact, I texted Michelle...Forget the booze, this is a meal to die for...and it just might kill me!!
 
Went back to work, where I had several more calls...from my room.  It was an exceptional work day...got lots accomplished.
 
I took a nap around 4.  Then I went to the workout room...where I had the place to myself.  Did the pool, hot tub, sauna...felt great.  Then headed to my mom's around 5:30.
 
Mark and I texted...quite a bit since I had arrived.  Basically, it was about my journey, my triggers, and my behaviors.  I told him I felt so free...and resolved.  There had been no triggers, whatsover... and then I said, that concerned me...I had started to become afraid by this point...  Why had I not had any triggers?  In fact, why did I feel just the opposite?
 
He asked if I was going to struggle with my mom.  I told him I didn't think so...but that I would be aware...and checking myself.
 
We went to a great local "joint" that served latin and mexican cuisine.  We shared some jerked nachos...and a Peruvian stir fry.  The food was exceptional...and mom hadn't experienced either of these.
 
We had a good visit...and she was "mom"...meaning...yes, she said some stuff that could have triggered "off" emotions.  But they didn't.  I realize she is just mom...and I'm ok with that...especially since the EMDR session I had with Dr. Petit.  She can be herself...I can be myself...and I don't have to live in any moments from my past...and I can separate those prior experiences from where I am today.  Those historical moments "do not exist in the present"...so why should the emotions tied to them?
 
Note, that last week I had a conversation with her about my sister and bro-in-law and how enjoyable it was that they worshiped with us.  I told her it saddened me that she refused to accept our faith...to the point that she wouldn't even be able to worship with us.  She said she understood, but that she couldn't.  I told her she didn't understand...We went back and forth a bit, then she said, she didn't really like this conversation.  And I said "Of course you don't...because you don't want to face the fact that this is not the unity that is spoken of in Scripture...and that dad never achieved the unity that he preached."  Ok...that was tense...and the next day I called her back to affirm her as my mom, and how grateful I was.  But I got to say what I had felt...and that helped me.  Now I can move on, and will likely never have to bring that up again.
 
So Friday night was great.  I went back to the hotel to read more Eggshells.
 
And I experienced my first trigger to drink...  As I was passing by the band in the lobby...it brought back many memories of enjoying music and beer in various places...many, even with Anita.  Not to drink to get drunk...but just to have a couple of beers to enjoy the ambiance.  And I asked myself, "Would that be so bad?  Besides, no one would ever have to know."  And as I rode the elevator to my room...I reasoned..."But I would know.  And I would not be able to report that I succeeded, even if I lied."  And in that moment, the desire disappeared, and was replaced with a desire to go get some decaf coffee...and enjoy the game (Thunder played again, but an away game).
 
I fell asleep...with tremendous peace and comfort.
 
Saturday morning...got up early...got some coffee...read more...and reflected on the journey of my life.  And here's when I decided the BPD behaviors I have exhibited in recent years, were, in my opinion, more substance induced than anything.  But I had to go back in my mind and put the pieces together.
 
Last week, Anita said she was done being treated "this way" for the past 20 years.  I asked why 20?  Why not 30? Because that's when the affair happened.
 
But for me...it started long before that.  I will stop writing here about my journey discovery, because there's no way I can type it all...I will simply have to reflect and explain it.  But it is this...I am not convinced that we fully grasp the real dynamics and why they happened.  There are some things I have wrestled with way before the affair.  And they are:
 
Feeling like it was never good enough.
Feeling like everything I said was taken either as a complement or criticism...that it could not be "just a statement" without meaning.
Feeling like no matter how I responded, it was always the wrong way, taken with a tone.  "What do you mean by that?  I was just answering the question."
Experiencing the "crazy" attacks...followed by the apologies.
And in recent times...the obsessive cleaning...and never feeling like the house was good enough to invite people over.  The people who stained our tile commented on how much of the grout was missing because of being scrubbed so much...and yet, the grout was always "dirty".
Feeling my friends were never good enough.  And that no matter who they were, they were a bad influence on me.
Whenever we would go out with couples...it was never enjoyable enough.
 
All of that...then the situation with Melissa...  and I believe I went over the edge...not because of anyone, other than me.  In other words...I failed to take control of my behaviors...I did not take responsibility for them...and I became addicted to alcohol and drugs.  Wrongfully... and it swallowed me up.
 
And this...why was I the only one given the MMPI-2 so that I could be labeled...but Anita never took it?  What might it have revealed?  Maybe nothing...but maybe something.
 
So that brings me to my revelation in the workout room today...I told Mark I was afraid to go home.  Because I was afraid of what might happen between the time I get there...and my appointment on Thursday...
 
Paul:  I'm afraid to go home...that doesn't make me even close to wanting to drink...in fact the opposite...it just makes me afraid.
 
Mark:  1. There are so many thoughts racing through my mind about you.  2. I've been frustrated that you came in the middle of my deadline when I don't have time.  3. And yet I'm really seeing that this is a God thing that you do have the time to yourself.  You've needed something like this.
 
Paul:  I have...there's an expression I use when you try to cram so much info and can't take it all in...so I know I have a TON of processing...it's like taking a drink out of a fire hydrant...I keep getting blown away.
 
I have decided however, just now...rather than being afraid to go home...I should embrace it...and be ready for the fall out...and not engage...but take hope in my session Thursday...and most important, lean on God...not the booze.
 
Mark:  That my friend is progress!!!
 
And that brings me to this moment...where I am sitting in the lounge (dark...closed)...and typing this out.
 
At peace.  Going to lunch with Mark in an hour...then later at my mom's...with my brother...which will, candidly, will take more out of me than it will return to me.  Oh well...It won't be a trigger!!
 
-----
 
Just lunched with Mark at the Mule...an amazing bacon lettuce tomato and cheese sandwich...
 
Great stories...he helped me understand his journey in the context of where I am now...
 
Then I went to lake Hefner...sat at the end of the boat ramp (lake very low) listened to Mercy Me Word of God Speak...and cried.
 
My mom called on the way…”Since it’s so late, why don’t you go to the store without me…”
------------
 
Good times at dinner…
 
Church next morning
 
Lunch with mom
 
Flight...and hotel
------------------------------
 
Coming home…
 
I feel anxiety...as I walk through the house.
 
It’s not a desire to drink...but it’s memories...mostly of the discord that has occurred.
 
And I look around...and see, it’s JUST a house.  A nice house.  What we fill it with, is up to us.
 
The events that took place...they are no longer real...they are historical...But not happening in the NOW...so I don’t have to respond (phone)...Ruthie...Hallelujah…
 
 
In the Shadow of Your Grace
 
What can wash away my shame
Or will I live forever in its grip
Squeezing the very life out of my soul
Leaving me to rot on the heap of humanity
 
Have I walked too far beyond the boundary of grace
Only to look back to see nothing but emptiness
Leaving me to fend for myself in this world
Sliding faster and faster to my death and destruction
 
But then I stop
I don’t move in any direction
I bow down
And listen
 
And I hear your voice
Just the whisper of your voice
Pleading with me to return
To simply turn around and walk
 
And so I did turn
I took one step, just one step
I heard you say, Give me your burden
And I will take care of you
 
How do I trust after all these years
My shame is great, my faith is weak, and I’m tired
I heard you say, Come to Me
And I will give you rest
 
 
The Miracle
 
 
 
The Heart of Glass
 
 
Copyright © 2014 by Paul T. Marshall
 
No more sheep
 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2014 by Paul T. Marshall
 
 
Sat 19... 
Came home from returning tile
Said we would rest
Conversation strained
Anita went to store to get away
I went to patio to read...
Situation with Melissa and George.
"You can watch him..."
It seems no matter what I say, or how I say it, it is interpreted with a deeply personal criticism
 
“I’ll let you make the dressing since you like your dressing better than mine.”
“I don’t like my dressing better than yours”
“What?! Now you’re being too sensitive!”
 
 
This road stops here…
 
Have you ever used the expression, “I remember it as if it was yesterday?”
I remember it as if it was happening today...yes, even right at this very moment.
 
Normally, it’s not good for me when my past takes over my in head, bringing the flood of emotions (the kind that are usually not too good) to the forefront.  But this is different.  In fact, I never, ever want to forget this one.  Because it’s the moment that I realized just how much I was brought to the living water’s edge of God’s grace...and saw with my own spiritual eyes the miracle I so desperately needed.
 
The road ends here.
My choice is simple.
Turn around...and go back…
Or continue...and take the path that leads to the water…
But you can’t stay here….
 
The Road Ends Here
 
I remember it as if it was yesterday.
No, I remember it as if it was today.
Happening right now.
Happening at this very moment.
 
I never want to forget that moment.
The moment my eyes were opened, and I saw it.
The moment my ears were pierced, and I heard it.
The moment I turned my face to the sun, and I felt it.
The gentle breeze of Your spirit, pushing the waves to shore, the roar in my ears, the rushing across my face.
 
 
 
5/2/2014
Have chosen to focus on my journey to health.
Control over drinking / escaping
In the midst of turmoil with Melissa
Sleeping well, working well, enjoying social interaction
Simple Supper
 
 
 
It’s Sobering...pun intended
 
The Rose
 
Amazing Grace I Did Receive
 
In the innocence
And purity of my garden
You were brought forth
As my creation
 
I laid the plans for you
To bring light and life
To the world
Of lost and wondering souls
 
You were given parents
Who sought my direction
Who protected you
From the evil one
 
They showed you the path
That you should follow
And raised you
In the knowledge of Truth
 
-------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Love
Joy
Peace
Patience
Kindness
Goodness
Faithfullness
Gentleness
Self Control
 
 
 
 
You walk with grace
In the garden above
 
Your spirit shines
With the joy of His love
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful
 
Your gentleness
The touch of your care
 
Is contagious
The love that you share
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful
 
You bring us joy
While to Him you pray
 
Take our burdens
Make our pains go away
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful
 
The light you shine
His answer to prayer
 
It lives in you
To reflect his care
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful
 
 ——————————————————
You walk with grace  
In the garden above,  
Your spirit shines  
With the joy of His love.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
Your gentleness  
The touch of your care,  
Is contagious,  
The love that you share.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
You bring us joy  
While to Him you pray,  
Take our burdens,  
Make our pains go away.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
The light you shine  
His answer to prayer,  
It lives in you  
To reflect His care.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
In every soft whisper,  
You guide us through strife,  
With words filled with kindness,  
You brighten our life.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
Your laughter dances  
Like a song in the air,  
A melody sweet,  
That banishes despair.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
With each step you take,  
You spread hope all around,  
A testament of faith,  
In love, we are found.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
Now in heaven's embrace,  
You flourish and thrive,  
Forever we'll treasure  
The love that survives.  
Beautiful, you’re beautiful.  
 
 —————————————————-
no power can move the unwilling
No power can stop the faithful
 
----------------------------------
 
The most important question... how can we help?
 
Grace is abounding more...where sin abounds, grace abounds more.
 
The enemies plan is to divide and conquer.
 
Larry Crab.... Taylor university his son kicked out for drugs... Anger rage guilt shame...
The only he could say... How can I help.
 
--------------------------------------------
 
An hour ago you walked out the door
I can still smell the perfume where your hand squeezed mine
 
 
 
 
-------------------------------------------------
 
Personal struggle of shame / helplessness / sorry / pain / failure / voices / turmoil ...
 
Trying to numb that part...while not the rest…(that doesn’t work out so well)...what I do...does affect other people...so I’m not completely in denial about that…  coming here continues to be an action of continuing improvement….a statement of my commitment to healing...
 
Trying to walk the tightrope…
 
We’ve had lots of good things going on…
 
Connection...practicing vulnerability for the purpose of achieving all the things that God meant for connection to be.
 
Mike
Michelle...breakfast
Friends
Danny
Mark
Karen / mom
Melissa / Afia
 
Accomplishments...trying to keep momentum going…
Finances
Home projects
Work
IRS
Organization
 
Introspection
Reading
Prayer
Planning
 
Exhaustion
Disconnection
Empty
 
 
Do not use drinking...as a defeatist attitude...
 
 
Just don't judge me for who I am
Don't judge me for what I do
No, no no 
Oh no you can't
 Judge me for my actions
Because you don't know
No, you don't know
The journey the journey that I do
 
 
How to connect and disconnect
 
Monday July 21... Anita texted Mel when she got home...then again after we ate at yayas. But on her ipad. I had mistakenly said she texted her at yaya...but my point was... If she texted using isms...mel would not get it. I told her it had to be green... She texted again on her phone. But got very very upset. Not once did she acknowledge that she was texting to the wrong number...but kept accusing that "you just have to be right..."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
God wants to have a conversation with us... And the Psalms record this conversation.
 
Search for God
Listen to God
Know God
Trust God
Stay on the path with God8/19 night after appointment.
9:00 PM...Anita car doesn’t start at CVS.
I go down.
Battery.  Good thing I took jumper cables.
Here to support...be the “knight in shining armor”
Make some “funny” comment…”Good thing the cop is over there watching us.”
Anita, “What is he supposed to do?”
Me, “Nothing...just being funny.”
Finally I ask her…”Are you upset with me?”  Because she has an attitude.
Got the car started.
Get home...and we kinda get into it when she comes to me where I wrote a text, “Don’t do anything.”  And she’s defending herself about not doing anything…
Fine...I throw her a, “WTF” type comment…(no, I didn’t say that literally).
But I’m tired of being the “bad guy”...when I try to be there as the Oak…
She uses the excuse, “I’m tired...I’ve been up for x hours...it’s been a long day.”
Fine...so then we get to have a session where I am accused of not being supportive.
Looking forward to that again.
 
And now we’re arguing...fighting...yelling… and she’s telling me how she doesn’t want to go back to Petits and “do this all again”...  I feel like, I can’t win.
 
“Because all you want to do is sit there with a smirky grin on your face, which is belittling to me.”
 
 
------------------------
 
To be made in the image of God…
What does it mean?
 
Does it mean I am like Him in His wisdom?
...In His knowledge?
...In His power?
...In His supremacy?
 
Just how, am I made in the image of God?
 
Clearly, I am not almighty,
...I am not omniscient,
...I am not omnipotent,
...I am not invincible,
...I am not the creator of all things…
 
In fact, I am frail,
...I am imperfect,
...I am weak,
...I am faulty,
...I am a failure…
 
And yet… I am told that I am made in His image.
 
I can deny it…
I can ignore it…
I can turn away from it…
I can close my eyes…
I can cover my ears…
And I can pretend not to see it...
 
Or, I can recognize it…
I can acknowledge it....
I can embrace it…
 
Embrace what, you ask?
 
That I am made for emotion…
That I am made for love…
That I am made for acceptance…
That I am made for being valued…
That I am made for compassion…
That I am made for connection…to be more than just me…
 
That’s how I’m wired…
That’s how I’m made…
In the image of God…
 
Speak To Me
Let me be still
And sit in silence
To hear your will
And slay the Giants
That haunt my spirit
This is my prayer
 
Too Much of a Good Thing
 
BOOM WHAC!
 
Timing is everything
 
Mea culpa
 
You don't want to take responsibility 
 
X  Marks The Spot
 
The Demons
 
Demons Landing
 
Tuesday Dec 2
 
Good conversation with Mich yesterday.
She has thought about my birthday...and said she even turned down an invite.
Wants to go iFly Orlando
We talked a lot about the various personalities in our family
And how Mike has really reached out to her.
 
Tonight I am going to Mikes group.
 
Carpe Diem - seize the day
Kairos - at the appointed time...a moment, a season
Chronos - a duration of time, day, week ,year
 
----------------------
 
Last week met with Melissa...was a good session.
I’m trying to figure out, as we enter Christmas...what does success look like?
Had some challenges...but managed to work my way through them.
 
Wynelle...emails.
 
Different perspective on the industry…  Follow the money.
 
Seven sides to every story...
1 the life of the oak
2 the life of the Rose
3 the oaks fallen / reactive soul
4 the roses fallen / reactive soul
5 the realities of the oaks weed
6 the realities of the Rose weed
7 the redemptive restorative unifying work the spirit does in the midst of 1 - 6
 
2 Corinthians 10
Ephesians 6
Ephesians 2
 
-----------------
 
Since last session:
 
Trying to understand the journey…  Having never experienced it…
 
Projects:  house stuff...condo stuff…
 
The Toilet…  how do toilets work?  They require significant water flow into the bowl...to create enough pressure to force fluid down...which then starts the syphoning effect….
 
This can be demonstrated by pouring fluid from a pitcher into the bowl…  Pour it slowly...nothing happens.  Dump it...and the syphon effect is created.
 
Over time...enough calcium builds up in the water canals to the bowl...and you no longer get a strong enough water flow to create the flush.
 
Here’s the thing...you think it’s because there’s something in the drain...so you snake it….doesn’t fix it.  Not the problem.  Misdiagnosis…
 
Then your tenant calls...and says...The toilet doesn’t work...we have a problem in the drain…
 
Points to ponder:
 
 
 
 
 
MMPI-2[edit]
The first major revision of the MMPI was the MMPI-2, which was standardized on a new national sample of adults in the United States and released in 1989.[3] The new standardization was based on 2,600 individuals from a more representative background than the MMPI.[15] It is appropriate for use with adults 18 and over. Subsequent revisions of certain test elements have been published, and a wide variety of subscales were introduced over many years to help clinicians interpret the results of the original clinical scales. The current MMPI-2 has 567 items, and usually takes between one and two hours to complete depending on reading level. It is designed to require a sixth-grade reading level.[15] There is an infrequently used abbreviated form of the test that consists of the MMPI-2's first 370 items.[16] The shorter version has been mainly used in circumstances that have not allowed the full version to be completed (e.g., illness or time pressure), but the scores available on the shorter version are not as extensive as those available in the 567-item version. The original form of the MMPI-2 is the third most frequently utilized test in the field of psychology, behind the most used IQ and achievement tests.
The original clinical scales were designed to measure common diagnoses of the era.
Number
Abbreviation
Description
What is measured
No. of items
1
Hs
Hypochondriasis
Concern with bodily symptoms
32
2
D
Depression
Depressive Symptoms
57
3
Hy
Hysteria
Awareness of problems and vulnerabilities
60
4
Pd
Psychopathic Deviate
Conflict, struggle, anger, respect for society's rules
50
5
MF
Masculinity/Femininity
Stereotypical masculine or feminine interests/behaviors
56
6
Pa
Paranoia
Level of trust, suspiciousness, sensitivity
40
7
Pt
Psychasthenia
Worry, Anxiety, tension, doubts, obsessiveness
48
8
Sc
Schizophrenia
Odd thinking and social alienation
78
9
Ma
Hypomania
Level of excitability
46
0
Si
Social Introversion
People orientation
69
 
 
 
 
What I DID measure positive for...is Narcissism….
 
The validity scales in all versions of the MMPI-2 (MMPI-2 and RF) contain three basic types of validity measures: those that were designed to detect non-responding or inconsistent responding (CNS, VRIN, TRIN), those designed to detect when clients are over reporting or exaggerating the prevalence or severity of psychological symptoms (F, Fb, Fp, FBS), and those designed to detect when test-takers are under-reporting or downplaying psychological symptoms (L, K, S). A new addition to the validity scales for the MMPI-2-RF includes an over reporting scale of somatic symptoms (Fs) as well as revised versions of the validity scales of the MMPI-2 (VRIN-r, TRIN-r, F-r, Fp-r, FBS-r, L-r, and K-r). The MMPI-2-RF does not include the S or Fb scales, and the F-r scale now covers the entirety of the test.
Abbreviation
New in version
Description
Assesses
CNS
1
"Cannot Say"
Questions not answered
L
1
Lie
Client "faking good"
F
1
Infrequency
Client "faking bad" (in first half of test)
K
1
Defensiveness
Denial/Evasiveness
Fb
2
Back F
Client "faking bad" (in last half of test)
VRIN
2
Variable Response Inconsistency
answering similar/opposite question pairs inconsistently
TRIN
2
True Response Inconsistency
answering questions all true/all false
F-K
2
F minus K
honesty of test responses/not faking good or bad
S
2
Superlative Self-Presentation
improving upon K scale, "appearing excessively good"
Fp
2
F-Psychopathology
Frequency of presentation in clinical setting
Fs
2-RF
Infrequent Somatic Response
Overreporting of somatic symptoms
 
 
 
Not sure how much I “care” about all that…  it is simply a measure…and I like measure…”If it can’t be measured, it doesn’t exist.”  I am living proof...I was BA...and they were not able to give me a diagnosis.  It could not be measured.  And I was admitted into a system that depends totally on measurement for payment.
 
How do we justify this?
 
 
 
 
Wonder how Moses must have felt…
 
The SOAP note (an acronym for subjective, objective, assessment, and plan) is a method of documentation employed by health care providers to write out notes in apatient's chart.
 
Subjective:
Onset
Location
Duration
CHaracter (sharp, dull, etc.)
Alleviating/Aggravating factors
Radiation
Temporal pattern (every morning, all day, etc.)
Severity
Variants on this mnemonic (more than one could be listed here) include OPQRST and LOCQSMAT
Location
Onset (when and mechanism of injury - if applicable)
Chronology (better or worse since onset, episodic, variable, constant, etc.)
Quality (sharp, dull, etc.)
Severity (usually a pain rating)
Modifying factors (what aggravates/reduces the symptoms - activities, postures, drugs, etc.)
Additional symptoms (un/related or significant symptoms to the chief complaint)
Treatment (has the patient seen another provider for this symptom?)
Objective:
 
Assessment:
 
Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stubbornness...
 
 
 
This begins...the journey...of a man…
 
A man who is...well...at this point...not divorced...but maybe should be.
 
You see...I’m that guy.  The one who loves my woman.  Who will stand beside her.  And yet...who is the enemy.  How is that?  A man who loves his woman, but is the enemy?
 
It doesn’t happen overnight.  It’s a journey...so, let’s do the journey…
 
I remember when I met her.  It was church camp.Eighth grade.
 
She was so cute.  I was giddy.  Thing is, she actually liked my friend.  I’m not exactly sure how this turned out...all I know is...I guess I won.
 
I remember feeling her out t on the camp trail.
 
It was ecstasy…  and the best…
 
Then we were “a couple”
 
We hang out endlessly… totally...completely...we were...for sure, “best friends”....
 
When we went to college...we were for sure “a couple”...
 
We spent all of our time together…
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Most adults don’t go through life the way you do...indulging your every whim….
 
The concept of the bell curve….
 
Everything that has occurred can be explained by your forgetfullness and incompetence…
 
 
What is this?
An envelope with the results of Huntings….
 
I might die … you might die…  the only difference is, I don’t have to know.  You might get hit by a buss tomorrow.
 
I also don’t know the lotery nuymbers...but that doesn’t mean I don’t want to know them.
 
You spend your whole life looking for answers...because maybe you think the next answer will make you a little less miserable…
 
And you know that when you run out of questions, you don’t just run out of answers...you run out of hope.
 
Glad you know that?
 
 
Almost dying changes nothing...dying changes everything
 
Do I feel worthy of receiving and getting good things out of a relationship
 
Why do I always sabotage an event
 
Problem statement
What problem are we trying to solve?
 
The mystery of God...is it ours to figure out, or to revere?
 
My Michelle
 
I remember that miracle day, holding you
And through the years cuddling together
Experiencing the fullness of life
These are the memories branded in my mind forever
 
There is no one in the world like you
You are unique
In your outgoing personality
And in your most beautiful physique
 
I love you for who you are
Not because of what you can do
Although what you do is amazing
I love you because you are you
 
Oh, my Michelle
You bring me so much joy
More than you will ever know
A love I commit to not destroy
 
And on this very special day
I just want you to know, how much I care
And how much I do love you
I very much want for you… for me to be there
 
 
Feeling “placed” ...and feeling at home.
Culturally we don’t get invited into much of a sense of humility
And we kind of skip over gratitude.
Whiddling things down to basics ...helps one to learn what’s important
Get rid of the house...and get rid of all the crap
 
You have to get comfortable with who you are, because who you are maybe all you are going to be.
 
 
What I learned...about taking on big projects...and learning how to break them up into smaller projects...and that makes the big project doable.
 
TINY: A story about living small (2013)
Happy (2011)
 
They say you can’t measure happiness...although you can apparently measure depression.
 
The constitution only guarantees the American people the right to pursue happiness.  You have to catch it yourself - Benjamin Franklin
 
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov
 
Time to focus on ME (Jan Feb Mar)
Physical, mental, spiritual well being
Activities of daily living...stability and replacing bad habits with healthy
A diary to document a) the behaviors and b) my response
Write a letter to the kids...and develop a plan for each one…(Feb)
Build a plan for the house (Jan)
Reach out to Angie to volunteer (sent an email)
Specific exercises to re-establish with Anita (Apr May Jun)
Trip to see Karen and Greg (soonish?)
August 8...is a Saturday… perhaps a vow renewal ceremony(?)
Find Melissa a place to live
Re-cohabitate (Nov)
 
Fixing your eyes
 
karoshi japanese
 
Compassion meditation
Commit acts of kindness
Count your blessings once a week
 
My life is a loan given by God and I will give it back with interest
 
 
Wake Up - filmed over the course of three years, this documentary follows Jonas Elrod, who woke up one day with the ability to see angels, demons and ghosts.
 
71% of Americans believe angels really exist
59% believe in demons
68% believe their soul survives death
 
Many believe there’s communication between the spirit world and ours
 
He sees people come out of the walls...balls of color...and they move around...
 
Sometimes they wake me up...they are people...they don’t have a body...they are spirits.
 
I don’t think it’s anything to be afraid of...I think it’s a beautiful thing…
 
It’s strange to think that God talks directly to man...but it’s clear in the Bible He has...from the beginning…
 
Moses…  That’s Bible…
 
 
 
---------------
I'm my own worst enemy...
Sabotage myself...
These are not true
The only natural conclusion to extinguish is to kill myself
 
---------------------------------------------------
http://changingminds.org/explanations/emotions/happiness/setpoint_happiness.htm
Description
There is a 'Set Point' theory of happiness and well-being that assumes we each have a fixed 'average' level of happiness around which our day-to-day and moment-to-moment happiness varies.
This is expressed in the idea of temperament, mood and emotion, where our natural temperament is stable, with slowly moving moods and momentary changes in experienced emotions.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
Twinkle, twinkle little star
How I wonder what you are
Up above the world so high
Like a diamond in the sky
 
If I could travel back 1000 years
8000 years away
I wonder what you like then
Were you like you are today?
 
As your light travels
Time passes on
The things that have happened
And the things that 
 
----------------
Song it is well it is well with me...
Keep calm carry on
Questions are good...hell no I don't have all the answers I don't even have all the questions
 
Dump your doubt
take the risk
And carry on
 
You can't get where God can take you.
 
-------------------------
 
Today is the first time I led with specificity about amount I drink...
 
Contextual perspective...of what I am drinking ..
 
And understand context and specificity as to the cocaine use...
 
Four X the marks the spot...
 
Mike...what stood out as a live x marks the spot...invite him to...as he feels comfortable .. About I don't trust you...
 
So as to burn away the parts that are dying...
 
Similar with Melissa...tone and delivery...
 
Michelle...invite her to share about the hope.
 
Anita...ask yourself...why did I share with her about the song...
 
Intentionally moving into the word of gods and spirit the specialty of flesh / spirit relationship
 
 
-------------------------------
 
 
 
The characteristic of my contribution to the whole...
 
Time heals all wounds...is a conversation stopper...
 
Thurs...1/29...20:30
 
Life has been calm and stable since the hospital incident...
 
I haven't blogged...not because I have nothing to say...but because it gets crowded out from my busy days...
 
Show me your friends, and I'll show you your future.
 
Who sits at your table? Acceptance.
 
Dr. Petit...
 
Turbo charge where I am going...
 
The kinds of things spirit focused on went back younger and younger...
 
And giving me the gift of connection and insight and repentance and release....
 
The older I get the younger I grow
The younger I am the more mature I become
 
Tap root of pride
Foolishness
Unbelief...the fool says there is no God...I'm on my own...
 
Follow the thoughts that lead to..what is essential for my survival...
 
Where did that come from?
 
Talianic impulse
 
 
Forgiveness Requires Remembrance
(A Conversation With My Past)
 
 
What will I start remembering?
 
Growing up...adolescents
Early days of marriage
How did I form the opinion of you?
How did you form the opinion of me?
What happens when you pile stuff on…
 
Capture dreams...before 
 
Discussion about ability... Are we doing / using our ability
With humility
 
 
 
My soul begins to ache
My feet can feel the quake
Shake
 
Monday...
 
I read this... And cried..
 
If there is such a thing as human perfection, it seems to emerge precisely from how we handle the imperfection that is everywhere, especially our own. What a clever place for God to hide holiness, so that only the humble and earnest will find it! A “perfect” person ends up being one who can consciously forgive and include imperfection rather than one who thinks he or she is totally above and beyond imperfection.
 
 
 
 
Tumbling
Around and around
Over and over
My body twists and turns
As I try to grab hold of something
That isn’t there
 
I’m free falling now
 
Some say I’m in a pickle
Some say I’m in a jam
Why this preoccupation with food
When all I can think is
I feel like a pretzel twisted into funny shapes
 
I must stabilize myself before I hit the bottom
 
 
 
 
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
When you’re feelin blue
Cuz they ragged on you
And they put you in the SHU
And then they flew…  away
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
When they tag you out
Cuz you had a little bout
Your life looks like a rout
Now you’re on the out… side
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
When you roll the dice
And you can’t pay the price
Or make the sacrifice
You’re not given a slice...of their time
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
Get down on your knees
Pray for the keys
To thaw the freeze
And unlock the squeeze...they have on you
 
Copyright © 2014 by SkylerThomas
 
Version 2
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
When you’re feelin blue
Cuz they ragged on you
 
Whatcha gonna do
When you roll the dice
Whatcha gonna do
When you can’t pay the price
 
 
 
 
And they put you in the SHU
And then they flew…  away
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
When they tag you out
Cuz you had a little bout
Your life looks like a rout
Now you’re on the out… side
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
When you roll the dice
And you can’t pay the price
Or make the sacrifice
You’re not given a slice...of their time
 
Hey old man
Whatcha gonna do
Get down on your knees
Pray for the keys
To thaw the freeze
And unlock the squeeze...they have on you
 
 
 
Write a similar from the perspective of Mark, Mike and Anita
 
3/23...Petit
 
Shared Anita's emails...
Story of Wayne...music session...
Story of Twitch...the gig story
 
I think one of the central endeavors is counting the cost...
I think you've gotten a good taste of single life...
And I think parts of it are tasting good...
No one to account for and to...
And I don't know this...and it might not be fruitful...
As both of us bring issues into focus...I am counting the cost...
At the level of do I really want to do this...the why and why not
What kind of pain and when do I want to endure...
Stay with the parts...a part of me says...
There is the real me...and the reactive me...
Flashes of reactivity and immaturity and glimpses of the other...
 
Restorative work...close the door on the cocaine.
Consider as a part of the next step for one month ... Close the door on alcohol for one month...
And use that time to engage in the timeline...
As you engage in interactions with Anita…
 
So...Monday will be here soon, and I will have to give an account as to my decision.  Going to run this by you to see what you think...
 
He said there are two parts...the "real Paul" and the "reactionary Paul."  The reactionary Paul is immature.  Ok...let's say I buy into that...  The reactionary Paul is the guy who says, "I can't find water here, so I'll go look somewhere else."  I used that example, and that's what he called immature.
 
But, the real Paul, in my opinion, is the guy who has figured out how to be happy.  How to enjoy life doing the things that are fulfilling... going to CJ's, hanging out with my friends, going to the Saturday Morning Market, going to the Cuban Sandwich Festival, going to a hockey game, going to church, going to New Orleans.  Here's what I want to know...does he consider those things to be reactionary?  I'd like to pin him down a bit on that...
 
I'm just not ready to "not drink" so that I can spend time working on a timeline of my happy and sad moments.  But, if I don't identify those things that don't work for me... (Anita driving in donuts) and the things that do (going to a hockey game with her)...he's going to say I haven't put enough effort into defining what I want out of our relationship.  I'm also curious to see (won't ask) if he's going to advise her to avoid me...to shut me out...especially since I, once again, told him I disagree with the advice he gave her when I was Baker Acted.  He may be trying to play a game - let's see if Paul really wants to "be single" or not.
 
Ok...that's where I'm going with my thought process…
 
3/30/2015
 
More Clarity...more connection and more freedom...
For example, the part of me that was saddened by my actions…
That’s the real Paul...the real Paul was saddened by the immature, unhealthy
And the part of you that offered to offered the roast...and make it for the reason I did
and tying it in specifically…
And the part of me that discerned and decided to burn the journal.  That’s the real Paul
A couple of questions.  ANd concerns on either side of that.
 
More of the release of the real Paul...that’s the whole point of all my suggestions.
So the curiousity...as it relates to Friday night...is...what specifically was reactive Paul and what was mature Paul reacting to.  Once that becomes clear, then the deeper meaning of that...why is that a trigger.
That’s the deeper thread...that will unlock enlightment and impowerment at a deeper level.
What it leaves me wondering is...did you enocunter a pocket of unexpected or unanticipated painful emotion...like feeling alone, or feeling isolated or feeling a wave of this sucks...or even a connection of “this was nice to be with my friend”...and on the one hand I’m grateful to do that...and yet at the same time it’s bitter swee
 
The limitation of REBT...it lacks transformative depth…
 
The other piece of this...I stated maybe three weeks ago...and is also a tripping point...a sticking point...a triggering point...I blame Anita…
 
Discussion of my faith basis versus Anita’s…  in light of these differences or potential differences, is restoration / reconciliation possible?  ANd the flip side of that is...will these become wedges?  As I have experienced insurmountable wedges...and therefore is that what I’m looking at?
 
Sunday morning...Easter...
Angel shows up...life altering news...response...
Why is it when an angel shows up...Do not be afraid...
Are you at a come and see place in your life?
Matt 28...1 - 10
Where am I in this story?
Going to the tomb?
Ready to look and see?
On your way to Galilee?
Are you going to show up?
 
Story of Car Talk... No one else showed up...
 
Personal mind map...
What do I want to get done today?
Reflection on the week and some hot topics...
Lashing out at Anita...texting
Artificial barriers and fences
Dealing with the medical bills
 
Activities of the week...
Who and what
House and my environment
Personal activities of daily living
The family and triggers
 
Petit: I see you as putting to death a position...a reactivity...that of blaming...
Whether that is Anita or Mike...
 
Reality of life...
My response
Gods result
 
Against pride, toward humility.
Casting off reactivity.
This brings about the feelings of isolation...and you will do the same with that.
And you are staying with feelings of justice and injustice.
And you have raised issues about intimacy...and spirituality.
You are participating in a manna experience ...they didn't know what it was...
The question mark changed into an exclamation mark.
Rev 2:17
Hidden manna
And white stone given to the one.
 
As you address these...you are able to suspend my therefore...and I'm asking you...what's your take?


It's easy for you to rely on your strength intellectually ...to think that is the best part of you... I, dr petit, struggle with this...when I shared that with you...you dismissed that...maybe too quickly...
 
The reactivity is fleshly...
 
Where I get stuck...with respect to Anita...when she says I need...that meets up with you...and you want to fight with her... You also get stuck at a deeper level...interpersonally...the list..yadda...
 
The problem is...your flesh lives and dies by lists...so the problem is it's more than you can take in...in a moment of reactivity...
 
Another place you get stuck is in the notion of perception.
 
At our close to the core of people .. In addition to surviving and thriving is to feel better do better be better...
 
As we grow and mature this becomes refined... So at the heart of our design...the best way is to live out our design...
 
Perception is a way to avoid understanding true meaning.
 
Gen 26... John 7 the Greek work ...valley...or hollow…
 
 
Thoughts about BA…
 
I get that the consequences of my Baker Act were mine.
 
I am not questioning the decision you made to “turn me in”...
 
However, I do question the clinical diagnosis...and the consequences that followed.
 
My insurance company assessed that I should not have been contained, based on the diagnosis code.  They assessed that I should have been treated outpatient, based on the diagnosis code.  The diagnosis code was, a psychological condition not induced by substances.  Completely untrue.  In addition, the psychologist told me, we are going to hold you because we cannot determine why you did what you did.  When I was given an opportunity to sign a paper to convert to voluntary status...he threatened me with a court order...and he said, if you do not resend this, I will go to a judge and have you detained longer.
 
I felt helpless.  I tried to reach out to you time and time again.  You didn’t respond.  And now, I get it.  I was putting you in a position that I should not have.  I will never do that again.  Were I to describe all of what I went through...I have concluded you would simply come back with what I put you through.  Fair enough.  Tit for tat.  So I won’t do that.  What I will say is...if I’m ever in a situation like that again...I will not reach out to you.  I have memorized other phone numbers...and will reach out to other people who I know will assist me.
 
Does a marriage relationship have boundaries of trust?  Yes.  And you and Dr. Petit have helped me understand that.  I’m not saying you made the wrong decision.  I’m saying I made the wrong decision for believing that I could depend on you in this situation.  It is now up to me to figure out what boundaries exist where I cannot depend on you to help me.
 
Clearly, those boundaries exist...and will forever.
 
 
 
Topics of discussion:
 
Continuation of lease...seems to be unbounded.
Finances
Tired of being alone and not looking forward to the upcoming Holidays
What are the limits of marital “trust”
 
Oct 13
What does it mean to be childlike?
Some of the most liberating truths are deeper than my personality
 
Switch from change to growth...
Think about ring incident
 
-----------------
Tues October 27 dual session
 
Anita started...what would you want your legacy to be?
The Rose
 
She went back to It's never good enough...  And that's true... We were living by the deeds.
 
What God is telling us...it doesn't matter what deeds we're doing but the key will be the condition of our hearts.
 
Brought up example of oil tank.
 
Paul....not reacting...not condemning...trying to shape this in the context of being separated.
 
Keep your eye on the boy.
 
November 2 session
 
Thanksgiving, Mom, Anita - discussion.
 
Dreams…
 
Mike Milvain…
In my dream, I dreamed that I told Anita about my dreams.
Anita was chiding me about how I was talking to George.
At Anita’s house.  The church there was giving us counseling.  And there was something like a $20,000 charge that we owed the church.
Her dad was upset we hadn’t paid it.
Ron Pitts...Anita’s brother-in-law…
Woke up feeling a high level of anxiety
 
Got yard work done.
 
Volunteered at St. Vincent’s
 
Mike the painter at the house today.
 
Breakfast with Melissa.
Breakfast with Tommy and Michelle.
 
Micro aggression
 
Petits response…
 
Last week when you mentioned going too see your mom...I remember experiencing something along the lines of wondering what the natural of that might be…
 
It felt like something of the old...rather than something of the new...it seemed a bit disconnected...and it was independent if not unilateral...it was something you came up with on your own...rather than relationally…
 
A possible topic…
 
How can this be right when it feels so wrong
 
 
 
 
 
 
One, Two, Three...
 
Well I had a little baby
She was hot as she could be
And whenever I would leave
She’d come back to me
 
Whoa oh…
We had it goin’ on
 
We got hitched up together
Our love was destiny
Things were going kinda nice
She was my ecstasy
 
Whoa yeah...
She made life good for me
 
We were so great together
And we had a lot of fun
We’d laugh and play all day
Under the sun
 
Oh no...
You couldn’t pull us apart
 
There were good times and bad
But the bad would run away
Cuz we never let it win
Or stand in our way
 
Whoa oh…
We had a great thing goin’ on
 
One, two, three… We made a family
The good things in life...we’re all that we could see
 
Oh no...
You couldn’t pull us apart
 
But one day the rain came
It never went away
It was like a storm forever
It caused us to betray
 
Our love…
Our love faded away
 
The lush garden of love
Is a beautiful place
But left alone too long
The weeds will disgrace
 
Your face
And you’ll be left alone
 
One, two, three...you’ll lose your family
The good things in life...they all will flee
 
Away…
And you’ll be left alone
 
So listen really hard
And take my advice
If it’s wrong but feels so right
You better think twice
 
Oh yeah...
You better run away...far away
 
The weeds of life will grow
And they’ll surely bring you down
If you don’t clean ‘em out
And you don’t turn around
 
From the doom...
And destruction they will bring
 
So get down on your knees
And pray to God above
And ask forgiveness please
And embrace His love
 
Oh yeah...
And be made whole again
 
One, two, three...the blessed Trinity
Wants you forever, forever to be free
 
Oh yeah..
And you’ll be whole again
 
 
11/30/2015 - Petit and me
 
Note:  Didn’t see Mark during visit.  My thought was, he is more my accountant than my friend.
 
To Anita:
 
Last week Dr Petit and I talked about how I could have handled our prior meeting together differently.  I felt oddly out of control...when I should have felt in control, albeit, filled with some fear and wanting avoidance.  Had I simply expressed what was going on inside...we could have turned that into a more healthy discussion...rather I shut up like a clam.
 
He reminded me that if there was a particular topic that, at the time, I didn’t want to discuss...it is possible to do that...and either work through my current anxiety at the time...and then work into it...or even do so at a later date.  But that walking away was a poor choice.
 
I am anxious about the holidays...December didn’t go especially well for me last year...and I don’t want a repeat of those feelings.  As it stands...no real monsters from my past have spooked me recently…  Though I have had some rather vivid (at the time) dreams...that have awoken me...but I have fallen back to sleep.
 
I have noticed some anger issues in the past few weeks...little things that bother me.  The work email...Mark…
 
I’ve also noticed a lack of desire to work out...or be involved with anything outside of work.
 
And...we can talk about the house…
 
It’s been slow going...but steady…
 
It's been said time heals all wounds...yet for the untreated or poorly treated wound, time will infect then scar. For the unset or improperly set bone, time will knit then lame. Treat the wound properly, set the bone right, then time becomes a servant of healing and ceases to be its enemy. As it is with the body so it is with the soul, the interaction, the conversation, and the relationship.
 
This week discussed MWSmith concert.
 
What Christmas means to me.
 
Observations… First, on the one hand experiencing some sadness to this season of celebration...but there's not the degree of hopelessness there was last year...so if there isn't then something must be displacing… What is it that is displacing some of the hopelessness? How can that be further intentionaly done…
 
So rather than just surviving work on thriving.  There may be choosing non-reactivity...at some point I want to open up reactivity to the new covenant heart. So that more and more of the flesh dynamic can be expelled. There is something from both of us to grow from.
 
12/22…
 
Moving through Dec with grace filled survival. Which is different than “button down the hatches”
 
Would encourage planning to move to thrive. A view toward moving into that.
 
If thriving is a 60,000 feet view...if that's what we desire… I would suggest … If that's what this is about… What do we want to see more of...less of...or not at all…
 
And from that come the projects… 
 
The goals begin to populate our conversations … And begins to turn around the fear… 
 
Projects are… For example… House… Melissa and George… The van…
 
And if we decide to continue these alternating sessions...we can discuss the projects… And more about the future than the past. It is about renewal… 
 
In contrast resolutions are unfortunate counterfeit for renewal. They are filled with negative and failure and ultimately defeat …
 
Melissa said, are we just supposed to pick up as if nothing happened?
 
Writing….
 
12/28/2015 with Dr. Petit
 
When you refer to the list what do you mean by that?
 
So there’s the “feels like” list...which is more of an emotional, very subjective … rememberance of what it feels like when the “oh, here it goes” talk starts…
 
That is the reactive.
 
Do I resist being vulnerable to my inner most thoughts and emotions.  Of course I do, that’s what it means to detach.
 
Feb 2 2016
 
What does it mean when you say, I fail too, but you never identify specifics.
 
Anita: talked about boundaries.
 
Our faith
Support of one another...respect, tree fell.
Instead of defending...do something different
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detachment
 
adjective
1.
not attached; separated:
a detached ticket stub.
2.
having no wall in common with another building (opposed to attached):
a detached house.
3.
impartial or objective; disinterested; unbiased:
a detached judgment.
4.
not involved or concerned; aloof.
 
verb (used with object)
1.
to unfasten and separate; disengage; disunite.
2.
Military. to send away (a regiment, ship, etc.) on a special mission.
 
Synonym
 
disassemblestar
disengagestar
disentanglestar
dissociatestar
isolatestar
segregatestar
separatestar
severstar
abstractstar
disassociatestar
disjoinstar
dismountstar
disunitestar
dividestar
divorcestar
freestar
loosestar
loosenstar
partstar
removestar
sunderstar
uncouplestar
unfastenstar
unhitchstar
withdrawstar
disaffiliatestar
take apartstar
tear offstar
unfixstar
Antonyms for detach
associate
attach
combine
desegregate
join
unite
connect
couple
fasten
fix
hold
remain
stay
link
merge
 
Don’t feed the bad wolf
An elderly Cherokee Native American was teaching his grandchildren about life…
He said to them, “A fight is going on inside me, it is a terrible fight and it is between two wolves. One wolf is evil—he is fear, anger, envy, sorrow, regret, greed, arrogance, self-pity, guilt, resentment, inferiority, lies, false pride, competition, superiority, and ego.
The other is good—he is joy, peace, love, hope, sharing, serenity, humility, kindness, benevolence, friendship, empathy, generosity, truth, compassion and faith.
This same fight is going on inside you, and inside every other person, too.”
They thought about it for a minute, and then one child asked his grandfather, “Which wolf will win, Grandfather?”
The Elder simply replied, “The one you feed.”
I’m starting to feel so detached from my past…”good” and “bad”
 
 
The Battle is Won
 
The proud warrior stood in the face of his enemy to fight
Giving it his all with every strength, every weapon and all his might
 
The crowd gathered around as the intensity did grow
Waiting to see what weapons they would choose; who would deliver the final blow
 
Most cheered for the proud warrior, much fewer for the contender
They were hoping for bloodshed and violence, and that the other would have to surrender
 
Chronos...the battle time came near
 
The time was approaching as the intensity grew stronger
When will the battle start?, they asked...how much longer?
 
As the lamb of God in starking humility approached the proud warrior from the shadows
He reached out his hand and simply offered the proud warrior a rose
 
And with one blow after another, the proud warrior offered to the crowd a slaying
The crowd cheered in delight; but there remained a handful who dropped to their knees and started praying
 
The news spread like wildfire; how the proud warrior was victorious and strong
But history would prove this victory wasn’t a victory at all, as the score of this battle was called wrong
 
Kairos...the battle was not over
 
The masses continued to follow the proud warrior because they themselves were proud
But the lamb of God had a remnant of believers, and to him they humbly bowed
 
And together, they sang:
 
Jesus Rose of Sharon, bloom within my heart.
Bloom in radiance and in love within my heart.
Just As I Am O Lamb Of God
by Horace L. Hastings
 
Just as I am, O Lamb of God,
Now I come, now I come;
To wash me in Thy cleansing blood,
Now I come, Now I come.
While mercy's guiding beacons beam
To point me to the crimson stream
That makes the foulest sinners clean,
Now I come, Now I come.
 
Just as I am, without delay,
Now I come, now I come;
To Christ the true and living Way,
Now I come, now I come.
For pardon purchased on the tree,
For grace and mercy rich and free,
O lamb of God, I come to Thee,
Now I come, now I come.
 
 
 
Dear Paul,
 
I’m going to put these words on your heart.  At the time you write these, you won’t understand the timing - that they were written early on Sunday morning of Valentine's Day.  You also won’t understand the meaning of the verses until later.
 
I am giving you this gift, not just to you, but you and your Bride on a special day that I hope will be a reminder of the gift I have given you for your entire life.  A gift that you still don’t understand.
 
What you are writing, you will later understand...is a story of love.  It is a story of the Crucifixion events.  How that story is steeped in good versus evil.  And in that story, how it appears on the surface that evil came out victorious.  But prideful people cannot see, for they are blind.
 
May you be surrounded by the peace that passes all understanding.
 
H.S.
 
Tues Mar 8
 
Discussion of building blocks...as they relate to Boundaries…
 
The anatomy of trust
What about the anatomy of boundaries
 
Better than ever together.
 
3/29/2016 Boundaries continued:
 
What is my mission statement?
 
Galatians 5:22-23 New International Version
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law.
 
Lord, our eyes are on you
To accept the love of your grace
Fully embracing joy and its healing power
Seeking your peace amidst today’s chaos
Showing others patience even when we are wronged
Treating others with the kindness we wish to receive
Being an example of goodness in the face of evil
Living out integrity as you exemplify integrity in your faithfulness to us
Granting others gentleness instead of judgment
Walking hand-in-hand with the Spirit of self-control
Lord, our eyes are on you
 
 
 
Ephesians 6:10-18New International Version (NIV)
The Armor of God
10 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. 11 Put on the full armor of God, so that you can take your stand against the devil’s schemes. 12 For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.13 Therefore put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand. 14 Stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place, 15 and with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. 16 In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. 17 Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.
18 And pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the Lord’s people.
 
Motivation
Use of Time
Wisdom and Knowledge
Spiritual Strength
Restoration
 
God’s Spirit
Friends (1 Corinthians 15:33)
Music
Activities (my time)
Money (Matt 6:21)
Words  (Matt 15:11)
Thoughts (Phil 4:8)
 
Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable--if anything is excellent or praiseworthy--think about such 
things. (Phil 4:8)
 
Do not be misled: "Bad company corrupts good character." (1 Cor 15:33)
 
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.(Matt 6:21)
 
What goes into someone's mouth does not defile them, but what comes out of their mouth, that is what defiles them." (Matt 15:11)
 
----
 
Surprised by rest…
 
 
Dr. Petit the cupcake example…
 
5/31.. Solo session…
 
I have been thinking about stimulus response...
 
Miracle on 34th Street… 
 
June 7… Both of us…
 
Petit: I think it would be wonderful to weave the theme of renewal...and there will be some topics that are new...that we have never had before…
 
It would probably be good to over communicate. Intentionally…
 
…
 
Discussed the incident of our trip to get product… And the discussion we had about the inheritance.
 
Two things that Petit is desirous…
 
A particular new growth and freedom that there is a capacity to recognize the movements and to name between the two … Oak and Rose vs weed… So whenever we are feeling something...it's more than just a feeling within...but that it is understood between us.
Then the plants co-join to identify what it is… 
 
June 28 2016
 
I'm sensing a shift from reactive to a reflexive or reflective good…
 
What is the messaging?  How can one be transparent without feeling the necessity to be defensive?
 
If Melissa and George end up at our house...that event should have happened...and it's a x … And I can handle an x…
 
Dogmatism… Legalism… Sullies the idea of obedience…
 
July 5, 2016
 
Maybe not that I went through that...but I'm glad I learned from the experience…
 
Petit recommendation … Whenever date of vow is… It is about newness…
 
It should be examination and excavation...where there are no faults in the foundation…
 
There have been wounds… Rejection...betrayal…
 
So whatever that date is it should be a renewal date...emotional, personally, spiritually and intimacy…
 
An exchange of love and foreignness…
 
Let's make our renewal night like our wedding night…
 
So look for the blocks and the reactivity so they can be eliminated…
 
**********************************************************
7/12/2016
 
Clean out some weeds.
 
Bird of Paradise…
 
Anita was more patient than me...at de-weeding.  I’d rather take a shovel to the whole thing and start over...but not Anita..for she had a connection with that bird.
 
I had better memories of being at her family’s house than my own.
 
We laughed together, we ate together, we grew up together.
 
And it was a place of true family...and a place for our kids.
 
The Holidays…
 
July 4th...Corn
Thanksgiving
Christmas
 
Contrast with the experiences from my family…
And that’s not Anita’s fault.
 
-----------------------
 
Song…
 
Atlanta…
Very surface
Just long enough… Just short enough
Internal tears of joy
 
Denver
Great trip
Sometimes people annoy me
Insights gained out of experience and training (whitebox, blackbox)
Diagram things about which we had no evidence (that bugs me, and I grow irritable)
Got our six month extension
 
Truck Saturday...moved Saturday night…
The incident (I said something I should not have)
“Looks to me like you are hanging on to something”
Kept separated that night...it was for the best
Worked well, as a team, I thought
Events that led to where we are, sale of house
 
Have been sleeping better...much better
 
Even when in Denver.
 
Dinner last night with Mel
Dinner tomorrow night with Mich
 
Feeling a comfortable embrace yet distance from the kids.
Would like to continue moving closer to Anita...emotionally, intimately...
 
 
July 26 solo…
 
Petite is moved and speechless…
 
Where will you be when you get to where you are going?
 
8/2 joint
 
Text miss send to Anita about breakfast with Paul…
 
Deny it.
Minimize it.
Own it.
 
Discuss how to replay it.
 
Petit… This connects with Brene Brown...trust is built or broken in the little things…
 
Marbles…
 
Building blocks…
 
Newness of life...that is the marbles...a new marble in the jar…
 
BRAVING:
 
B – Boundaries.  You respect my boundaries and when you are not clear about what’s OK and what’s not OK, you ask. You are willing to say no.
 
R – Reliability.  You do what you say you’ll do.  At work this means staying aware of your competencies and limitations so that you don’t over-promise and are able to deliver on commitments and balance competing priorities.
 
A – Accountability.  You own your mistakes, apologize, and make amends.
 
V – Vault.  You don’t share information or experiences that are not yours to share.  I need to know that my confidences are  kept and that you are not sharing with me information about other people that should be confidential.
 
I – Integrity.  You choose courage over comfort.  You choose what is right over what is fun, fast, or easy.  And you choose to practice your values rather than simply professing them.
 
N – Non-judgment.  I can ask for what I need, and you can ask for what you need.  We can talk about how we feel without judgment.
 
G – Generosity.  You extend the most generous interpretation possible to the intentions, words and actions of others.
 
This was the week we threw out the mattress...we discussed this with Petit...
 
Bridgepoint 8/14
 
What we do is what we believe.
 
Proverbs 23:7 … For as he thinks
 
Sunday afternoon…
Discussion about the moments…
At rest. With Kirsten and Jay
Sidewalk church
Kitchen…
 
You said … I said nothing….not a word on sidewalk…
 
You don't trust me….and what have you been saying for months now? Somehow that is different…
 
We had a discussion about how Kirsten and jay interact
 
She later came back and apologized…
 
9:00 PM...the roach
 
 
8/16...8:40...ranting about pictures
 
When I try to help she just yells at me...melts down…
 
9:00… more yelling at me...about feeling the way she used to...and me not responding correctly…
 
Then she started that old routine of yelling AT me...I told her I’m not going to let her do that...and walked to the dock…
 
She came out...and said I could come in...as she is not going to say another word to me...she took Romeo to the room...closed the door.
 
9:15 ish...she came back in...and said she didn’t want to be in this place…
That she was upset at me...in anger.
But then she said she didn’t use the word anger.
I’m confused…
What I told her is...I can not be angry and we can move on.
She left the room...came back in...I explained I am a bit confused.
So, in other words...I don’t know what’s going on...but I am going to remain calm.
 
 
 
Sunday 8/21. Phil 4:10ff
842 /autárkēs ("sufficiency within") occurs only in Phil 4:11 where it refers to positive self-sufficiency (inward adequacy) – i.e. that comes through the indwelling power of Christ.
 
[842 (autárkēs) comes from autos ("self") and arkein ("sufficient") meaning "self"-sufficiency, which is entirely God-produced.
 
 
God has so ordained the universe that no matter where you are right now you have everything you truly need to be content.
 
Matt 19:23… Eye of a needle…
Comment from Castile… Those people are moderately rich…. God speaking to us?  We ARE rich in him...
 
If you're not happy without it you won't be happy with it.
 
Cognate: 2480 isxýō – properly, embodied strength that "gets into the fray" (action), i.e. engaging the resistance. For the believer, 2480 (isxýō) refers to the Lord strengthening them with combative, confrontive force to achieve all He gives faith for. That is, facing necessary resistance that brings what the Lord defines is success (His victory, cf. 1 Jn 5:4). Accordingly, faith (4102 /pístis) and 2480 (isxýō) are directly connected (Js 5:16). See 2479 (isxys).
 
 
Aug 23...Petit
 
Had mistake avoidance for freedom… 
 
Postponing the inevitable...the responsibility… Is not freedom… But bondage…
 
What is real comfort food…
 
Mar 6 2018 
 
Sad lonely frustrated tied up in knots
Concerned
Unresolved
Feeling like a fool 
Second guessing
 
Physically emotionally spiritually
 
Communication, impasse, tones and attitudes.
 
Petit…
 
The heart of a new agreement…
To agree together that it’s time to work together…
To find a better way, individually and together to
Feel better, to do better and be better…
 
4/9/2018 notes
 
I went to condo afternoon.  Took PTO.
 
Product was to be delivered.  I was concerned it would not be.
 
I was correct.  So I started texting our contractor.  I made a deal with him if he didn’t show me a receipt Monday Pm I would make other arrangements,
 
Anita felt I was being overly aggressive and turning everyone against me.
 
That was the gist of the argument.  It turned toxic.
 
I decided to leave and said if I do, we are done. So I went to my office. She locked me out.  I banged on the door.  She opened it and stood blocking me at the stairs. I pushed her to get around and she threatened to call the cops. So I said, what are you going to baker act me again? Obviously that was fuel on the fire.
 
She brought up her financial contribution.  And it all went downhill from there.
 
She left.  I locked the doors and then thought..not right. So I unlocked them.
 
She eventually came back.  And continued her rant.
 
By this time I simply listened.  Not confronting. Though I admit I had prior.
 
I shared my texts with Tommie to no avail. 
 
She is convinced I am a person of no integrity I think
 
Examples would be her and Pastor leaving
Me leaving engine running while fueling
And numerous examples of truth telling…Melissa letter..me on the job
She has a very black and white view
 
She came down and yelled at me at Jan .. And yelled at me at the baker act
 
I am not first in your life 
 
You don’t want to be married to me
 
You haven’t done it since you screwed Jan
 
You promised me
 
She continues to yell
 
She continues to bring up me screwing Jan
 
Your arrogance to me is unbelievable 
 
4/14
 
On way to church… awkward
 
Class…
 
My impression
 
Tommy messages
 
Haircut 6/23…
 
When I returned, first comment "Wow, long haircut"
 
When I asked what she meant…she replied, "You're getting defensive."
 
Wonder if, "I really like your haircut" would have been a better first response.
 
Church 6/24
 
Going to church w/o Anita feels like an obligation.  So I chose not to go.
 
Is that ok?
 
11/6/18
 
I'm feeling it again…
…a disconnect
…an obsession
…a yearning…pulling…into the deep
 
Hey cowboy, where ya headed?
Why you walking out the door again?
What do you think you're leaving behind?
That you can find something better?
Or that you're simply leaving the pain?
You remember that day
When the cops came knocking on the door
And you left in handcuffs
Swaying back and forth in the back of his car
Feeling numb
Sitting in the waiting room for hours
Watching the people come and go
Wondering when your next meal would come
Being told when and where you'd do what next
All your freedom gone
No one caring
No one answering your call
Alone
Deserted
Was that what you wanted?
 
 What about the Young Messiah?
 
What was Jesus like as a boy?
 
When did he learn he was the son of God?
 
I don't think I'm here to see Angels
Or to see the Sing
I don't think I'm here to …
I think I'm here to be alive…to see it…to hear it…to feel it…even when it hurts
I know you'll tell me why I'm here.
Because Father, I am your child.
 Is devotion an outgrowth of our worship? Or is worship an outgrowth of our devotion?
 
Water is most refreshing to a parched land, at a time when death is near.
 
…bottled that place in time to keep it forever…
 
Worship isn’t about me, other than to shine a inward spotlight on what I need to do different in my outward serving.
 
Community
Music
Preparation
Looking into Word
Connection
 
Vision, we see a church… about 9 of them. What we aren’t saying is we are a church. Something we aspire for.  But we see it, we may never accomplish it.
 
Thank you for being a part of the church we aspire to be.
 
When we sing songs…we are asking for God’s presence, but not all songs are worship songs.  Some of them are praise songs.  Some are God’s Word to us songs as reminders to us. Some are community songs.
 
When the focus of the song is on God and not us, that is worship. It’s not if we’re on key, or if we nailed the harmony… God’s glory, His name, His fame, nothing but Him is the aim.
 
Worship is dependent on our hearts and our perceptiveness to hear God and what He is doing and where He is calling me and us to.
 
Do I see a church that values worship and exalts God. Is that who we are and is that who I want to be a part of?
 
We do value singing songs and our leaders? What part of that is necessary to even have an awesome worship experience.
 
We have 10,080 minutes every week.  And how many of those do we spend in worship?
 
And this is why the broader context of meaning is critically important.
 
It makes no sense to spend an hour two in a church building if we aren't going to open ourselves up to seeing where God wants to test us and move us during the remaining 9,960 minutes of the week.
 
5/20
 
	•	Look at some NT words … 6 Greek words and some Hebrew
	•	OT… earliest references 
	•	Revelation and response… when something is revealed
 
PROSKUNEO bow down
http://biblehub.com/greek/4352.htm
 
LATREUO sacrificial service
http://biblehub.com/greek/2999.htm
http://biblehub.com/greek/3000.htm
 
LEITOURGEO
http://biblehub.com/greek/3009.htm
 
THREISKIA religion cult
http://biblehub.com/greek/2356.htm
 
SEBOMAI
 
EUSEBIA
 
Abraham and Isaac
http://biblehub.com/hebrew/7812.htm
 
Same word Job 1:20
 
Revelation and response.
 
Tozer quotes on worship.
 
Illustration of woman with valuable jewel..she had no idea and thus didn’t treat it as.
Worship is…Placing an ultimate value on God.
 
You’re already placing ultimate value on something.
The world is not made up of people who don’t worship and people who do.
 
 
Have you ever struggled with the dilemma of coming clean on something?
 
What's the right thing to do?
 
Are you only going to do the right thing if you're forced into a corner?
 
Or are you looking for a way out?  Wondering if you don't say something, maybe they will never know.
 
Is it like pulling the band aid?
 
How much courage does it take to do nothing?
 
How much courage does it take to do the right thing, and own your mistakes?
 
What's the cost?
 
What's the cost of NOT?
 
How do you earn someone's trust?
 
This is about integrity and honesty and doing the right thing as our tag line says.
I don't come with any excuses.  Nor do I shun the responsibility.
So here it is.
 
You walk with grace
In the garden above
 
Your spirit shines
With the joy of His love
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful
 
Your gentleness
The touch of your care
 
Is contagious
The love that you share
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful
 
You bring us joy
While to Him you pray
 
Take our burdens
Make our pains go away
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful
 
The light you shine
His answer to prayer
 
It lives in you
To reflect His care
 
Beautiful, you’re beautiful

3 things in worship
Find God beautiful in Worship
 
Seek transformation in Worship
 
Ask God to soften your heart and reveal Truth
 


Carpe Diem - seize the day
Kairos - at the appointed time...a moment, a season
Chronos - a duration of time, day, week ,year

From dr. petit: Seven sides to every story...
1 the life of the oak
2 the life of the Rose
3 the oaks fallen / reactive soul
4 the roses fallen / reactive soul
5 the realities of the oaks weed
6 the realities of the Rose weed
7 the redemptive restorative unifying work the spirit does in the midst of 1 - 6

 
 
 
As a young parent I remember sitting through a talk in church from a Family Guidance counselor on How to Discipline Your Children.  To this day, as my children have grown and left the nest, and are raising children of their own, I remember some of the gems from that talk.
 
How do you deal with your kids dating someone you don't necessarily approve of or like.  That particular story ended with the Father saying, "I don't think I can do that."  To which the Counselor replied, "Then meet your new son-in-law!"
 
 
 
What does it mean to be made in the Image of God?
 
Many of my writings have described the struggles of imperfections and the desire to belong to something greater than me.
 
Weaving a pattern in these writings is the sheer frustration of my own failures, and how those failures have affected others surrounding me, to the point that they have, at times, withdrawn from me.
 
There is a dichotomy that, I could argue, lives in each God believing person who is physically surrounded by the turmoil and destruction eroding the population centers of this Earth and the desire to isolate ourselves to a quieter, more peaceful surrounding of solitude.  How do we live in this world with it eroding our own deep seated desire to be not of this world?  Is it possible?
 
I start with a simple declaration.  A simple question.  What does it mean to be made in His image?
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
There aren't enough sermons to convince you that you are loved by God.
What does it take to grow in your understanding?
I know this, when I was baptized at the young age of 12, I had no idea what a life-long commitment would mean.  I had no idea what journey I was about to embark on that would eventually bring me to a full understand of the love of God.
 
A life without struggle is not the guarantee.
 
It's a fairy tale story, but one that I think so many of us can relate to more and more through our later years in life.
 
It's a story that warms the heart of children…but a story that deepens the understanding of adults.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
What can we learn from the Velveteen Rabbit:
 
A stuffed rabbit sewn from velveteen is given as a Christmas present to a small boy. The boy plays with his other new presents and forgets the velveteen rabbit for a time. These presents are modern and mechanical, and they snub the old-fashioned velveteen rabbit. The wisest and oldest toy in the nursery, the Skin Horse, who was owned by the boy's uncle, tells the rabbit about toys magically becoming real due to love from children. The rabbit is awed by this idea; however, his chances of achieving this wish are slight.
 
One night, the boy's nana gives the rabbit to the boy to sleep with, in place of a lost toy. The rabbit becomes the boy's favorite toy, enjoying picnics with him in the spring; and the boy regards the rabbit as 'REAL'. Time passes, and the rabbit becomes shabbier but happy. He meets some real rabbits in the summer, and they learn that he cannot hop as they do and say that he is not real.
 
One day, the boy comes down with scarlet fever, and the rabbit sits with him as he recovers. The doctor orders that the boy should be taken to the seaside and that his room should be disinfected—all his books and toys burnt, including the velveteen rabbit. The rabbit is bundled into a sack and left out in the garden overnight, where he sadly reflects on his life with his boy. The toy rabbit cries, a real tear drops onto the ground, and a marvelous flower appears. A fairy steps out of the flower and comforts the velveteen rabbit, introducing herself as the Nursery Magic Fairy. She says that, because he has become Real to the boy who truly loves him, she will take him away with her and "turn [him] into Real" to everyone.
 
The fairy takes the rabbit to the forest, where she meets the other rabbits and gives the velveteen rabbit a kiss. The velveteen rabbit changes into a real rabbit and joins the other rabbits in the forest. The next spring, the rabbit returns to look at the boy, and the boy sees a resemblance to his old velveteen rabbit.
 
An often quoted conversation from the book:
 
“Real isn’t how you are made,” said the Skin Horse. “It’s a thing that happens to you. When a child loves you for a long, long time not just to play with, but REALLY loves you, then you become Real.”
 
“Does it Hurt?”
 
“Sometimes,” said the Skin Horse, for he was always truthful. “When you are Real you don’t mind being hurt.”
 
“Does it happy all at once,” he asked, “or bit by bit?”
 
“It doesn’t happen all at once,” said the Skin Horse.  “You become. It takes a long time.  That’s why it doesn’t happen to people who break easily or have sharp edges or who have to be carefully kept.  Generally, by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very shabby.  But those things don’t matter at all because once you are real you can’t be ugly except to people who don’t understand.”
 
 
This is an excellent question. There are probably very few people in the church today who have ever stopped to ask themselves what the Imago Dei is really all about. There are even fewer who could come up with an answer if asked point-blank to state their beliefs concerning this point of biblical doctrine.
 
From <https://www.focusonthefamily.com/family-q-and-a/faith/what-it-means-to-be-made-in-the-image-of-god> 
 
 
http://www.skylerthomas.com/?p=355
 
 

The ink is dry on all of our past
The pages we turned are recorded at last
Some are marked by the tears of our pain
And most are marked by the joys that we gained
Memories are memories and they cannot be changed
They can only be embraced by how our minds have arranged
So here we stand on this anniversary day
Of what we bring to celebrate and weigh
It’s now our chance to write the pages to come
I’m ready to dive in, the fulness of life to succumb
To make each day count, the advantage to take
To keep writing our pages, great memories to make
You’re the one I chose 41 years ago
And it’s been such a great ride, I’m glad we have more to go
Today I celebrate the life that we made
Each other, our children, and the dreams that we prayed
 ~ with all my love




